# IoMS

## Problem Statement:
Gujrat government has nearly 9 million students studying in primary education acress state. They are in different cities and villages acress state. There is no mechanism to identify bright students who are performing well in study, sports or other activities. Web portal can be analyzed on different parameters. Such identified students can be provided with extra resources or special attention can be given to their upbringing.

In recent decades, India has made significant progress on access to schooling and enrollment rates in primary education but dropout rates and low level of learning remain challenges for the state and central government. It is clear that many problems of access to schooling have been addressed. Despite of these improvement keeping children in school through graduation is still an issue and dropout rates continue to be high. Nationally 29 percent of children dropout before completing five years of primary school, and 43 percent before finishing upper primary education. Priorities should be given to digitalize the data of students who are enrolled.

The cons of this enrollment drive are: The data of students is difficult to handle in physical form and analysis of such data is difficult at state level. There are platforms available for upper primary schools and high school onwards. So, this project will help in identifying the merit students from primary education. This platform will help in grabbing the attention of government for meritirious students in primary education. If such students sre given special attention, then this will help in reducing the dropout rate. In order to overcome these cons there is a need to handle such huge amount of data.
